README.md, before:

# ESP32 Scream Audio Device

A wireless audio streaming solution for ESP32 microcontrollers that works with the Scream virtual audio driver protocol.

## Description

This project turns an ESP32 or ESP32-S3 microcontroller into a versatile audio streaming device. It can function as both:

- A **receiver** that plays audio streamed from Windows PCs running the Scream virtual audio driver
- A **sender** that captures audio from USB devices and transmits it to other Scream receivers

It uses WiFi to transmit high-quality, low-latency audio throughout your network, effectively creating wireless audio links between devices.

## Capabilities

### Receiver Mode
- Receives audio wirelessly from any Windows PC running the Scream audio driver
- Outputs to USB DAC (ESP32-S3) or SPDIF (ESP32/ESP32-S3)
- Supports 16-bit, 48kHz audio
- Dynamic buffer management for balancing latency and stability
- Volume control through web interface

### Sender Mode (ESP32-S3 only)
- Acts as a USB sound card and captures audio from hosts (computers, game consoles, phones)
- Transmits audio wirelessly to any Scream-compatible receiver
- Configurable destination IP and port
- Volume and mute controls via web interface

### System Features
- User-friendly web configuration interface
- Smart WiFi management with roaming support
- Power-saving sleep modes when inactive
- Automatic wake-on-audio functionality   

### ScreamRouter Compatibility
This device is fully compatible with [ScreamRouter](https://github.com/netham45/screamrouter), an advanced audio routing and management system that supports both Scream and RTP audio sources. ScreamRouter enables:

- Complex whole-house audio setups
- Audio routing between multiple sources and receivers
- Group control of multiple audio endpoints
- Equalization and audio processing
- Time-shifting and audio buffering
- Web-based MP3 streaming for browser listening
- Home Assistant integration

## Installation

### Hardware Requirements

#### For Receiver Mode:
- ESP32-S3 with USB DAC *or* ESP32/ESP32-S3 with SPDIF DAC
- 5V power supply
- WiFi network

#### For Sender Mode:
- ESP32-S3 development board
- USB audio input device
- WiFi network

### Firmware Installation

**Option 1: Pre-built Firmware**
1. Download the firmware that matches your hardware:
   - `firmware-esp32s3-usb.bin` (ESP32-S3 with USB audio)
   - `firmware-esp32s3-spdif.bin` (ESP32-S3 with SPDIF)
   - `firmware-esp32-spdif.bin` (ESP32 with SPDIF)

2. Flash using esptool:
   ```
   esptool.py -p (PORT) write_flash 0x0 firmware-xxx.bin
   ```

**Option 2: Build from Source**
1. Install ESP-IDF (v5.4+)
2. Clone this repository
3. Copy the template sdkconfig to \sdkconfig:
   ```
   # For ESP32-S3 USB
   cp sdkconfig.esp32s3_usb sdkconfig
   
   # For ESP32-S3 SPDIF
   cp sdkconfig.esp32s3_spdif sdkconfig

   # For ESP32 SPDIF
   cp sdkconfig.esp32_spdif sdkconfig
   ```
4. Build, flash, and monitor:
   ```
   idf.py build
   idf.py -p (PORT) flash
   idf.py -p (PORT) monitor
   ```

## First-Time Setup

1. **Power on the device**
   - Connect power to your ESP32/ESP32-S3
   - For ESP32-S3 receiver, connect a USB DAC
   - For ESP32 receiver, connect a SPDIF DAC to the output pin
   - For ESP32-S3 sender, connect to a USB audio capable host

2. **Connect to initial WiFi access point**
   - The device creates a WiFi network named "ESP32-Scream"
   - Connect to this network with your phone/computer
   - A captive portal should open (or navigate to http://192.168.4.1/)

3. **Configure your WiFi**
   - Select your home network
   - Enter the password
   - Device will connect and restart

4. **Direct Connection Mode (No WiFi Network)**
   - If you want to use the receiver without connecting it to a WiFi network:
     - The receiver will remain in AP mode with IP address 192.168.4.1
     - Connect your sender device to the "ESP32-Scream" AP network
     - Configure the sender to use destination IP 192.168.4.1 and port 4010
     - Audio streaming will work directly between the devices

5. **Access the web interface**
   - Find the device's IP on your network
   - Or reconnect to "ESP32-Scream" 
   - Open the IP address in a browser
   - Configure options based on your use case

## Factory Reset
Hold GPIO pin 0 during the first 3 seconds of boot to reset all settings.

Commit message:

Update readme, add flashing site

README.md, after:

# ESP32 Scream Audio Device

A wireless audio streaming solution for ESP32 microcontrollers that works with the Scream virtual audio driver protocol.

## Description

This project turns an ESP32 or ESP32-S3 microcontroller into a versatile audio streaming device. It can function as both:

- A **receiver** that plays audio streamed from Windows PCs running the Scream virtual audio driver
- A **sender** that captures audio from USB devices and transmits it to other Scream receivers

It uses WiFi to transmit high-quality, low-latency audio throughout your network, effectively creating wireless audio links between devices.

## Capabilities

### Receiver Mode
- Receives audio wirelessly from any Windows PC running the Scream audio driver
- Outputs to USB DAC (ESP32-S3) or SPDIF (ESP32/ESP32-S3)
- Supports 16-bit, 48kHz audio
- Dynamic buffer management for balancing latency and stability
- Volume control through web interface

### Sender Mode (ESP32-S3 only)
- Acts as a USB sound card and captures audio from hosts (computers, game consoles, phones)
- Transmits audio wirelessly to any Scream-compatible receiver
- Configurable destination IP and port
- Volume and mute controls via web interface

### System Features
- User-friendly web configuration interface
- Smart WiFi management with roaming support
- Power-saving sleep modes when inactive
- Automatic wake-on-audio functionality   

### ScreamRouter Compatibility
This device is fully compatible with [ScreamRouter](https://github.com/netham45/screamrouter), an advanced audio routing and management system that supports both Scream and RTP audio sources. ScreamRouter enables:

- Complex whole-house audio setups
- Audio routing between multiple sources and receivers
- Group control of multiple audio endpoints
- Equalization and audio processing
- Time-shifting and audio buffering
- Web-based MP3 streaming for browser listening
- Home Assistant integration

## Installation

### Hardware Requirements

#### For Receiver Mode:
- ESP32-S3 with USB DAC *or* ESP32/ESP32-S3 with SPDIF DAC
- 5V power supply
- WiFi network

#### For Sender Mode:
- ESP32-S3 development board
- USB audio input device
- WiFi network

### Firmware Installation

**Option 1: Web Installer (Recommended)**
1. Visit [https://netham45.org/esp32-scream-receiver/](https://netham45.org/esp32-scream-receiver/)
2. Connect your ESP32 device to your computer via USB
3. Select the appropriate firmware variant for your hardware:
   - **ESP32 SPDIF** - For ESP32 with SPDIF output
   - **ESP32-S3 SPDIF** - For ESP32-S3 with SPDIF output
   - **ESP32-S3 USB** - For ESP32-S3 with USB audio
4. Click "Download Firmware" for your selected variant
5. Once downloaded, click "Install" to begin flashing
6. Follow the browser prompts to select your device and complete the installation

The web installer uses [ESP Web Tools](https://esphome.github.io/esp-web-tools/) to flash your device directly from the browser without requiring any additional software or drivers. The web installer works from Chrome and Edge on PCs, it does not support Firefox or Mobile.

**Option 2: Pre-built Firmware**
1. Download the firmware that matches your hardware:
   - `firmware-esp32s3-usb.bin` (ESP32-S3 with USB audio)
   - `firmware-esp32s3-spdif.bin` (ESP32-S3 with SPDIF)
   - `firmware-esp32-spdif.bin` (ESP32 with SPDIF)

2. Flash using esptool:
   ```
   esptool.py -p (PORT) write_flash 0x0 firmware-xxx.bin
   ```

**Option 3: Build from Source**
1. Install ESP-IDF (v5.4+)
2. Clone this repository
3. Copy the template sdkconfig to \sdkconfig:
   ```
   # For ESP32-S3 USB
   cp sdkconfig.esp32s3_usb sdkconfig
   
   # For ESP32-S3 SPDIF
   cp sdkconfig.esp32s3_spdif sdkconfig

   # For ESP32 SPDIF
   cp sdkconfig.esp32_spdif sdkconfig
   ```
4. Build, flash, and monitor:
   ```
   idf.py build
   idf.py -p (PORT) flash
   idf.py -p (PORT) monitor
   ```

## First-Time Setup

1. **Power on the device**
   - Connect power to your ESP32/ESP32-S3
   - For ESP32-S3 receiver, connect a USB DAC
   - For ESP32 receiver, connect a SPDIF DAC to the output pin
   - For ESP32-S3 sender, connect to a USB audio capable host

2. **Connect to initial WiFi access point**
   - The device creates a WiFi network named "ESP32-Scream"
   - Connect to this network with your phone/computer
   - A captive portal should open (or navigate to http://192.168.4.1/)

3. **Configure your WiFi**
   - Select your home network
   - Enter the password
   - Device will connect and restart

4. **Direct Connection Mode (No WiFi Network)**
   - If you want to use the receiver without connecting it to a WiFi network:
     - The receiver will remain in AP mode with IP address 192.168.4.1
     - Connect your sender device to the "ESP32-Scream" AP network
     - Configure the sender to use destination IP 192.168.4.1 and port 4010
     - Audio streaming will work directly between the devices

5. **Access the web interface**
   - Find the device's IP on your network
   - Or reconnect to "ESP32-Scream" 
   - Open the IP address in a browser
   - Configure options based on your use case

## Factory Reset
Hold GPIO pin 0 during the first 3 seconds of boot to reset all settings.
